# Spring MVC REST API Documentation Generator
## SecondMarket

### What is this project?
This is a Maven Plugin for Spring MVC projects to automatically generate XML-based documentation for the REST API outlined in the project's Controllers source files.

### How does it work?
The Maven plugin runs during the "package" phase of your build/install process, and scans the compiled source files using Java Reflection.

### What's the point?
This tool will allow you to generate an automatic fresh version of your API documentation every time you build.  You can build your own interface to interpret the XML and JSON files generated by this plugin into HTML or some other human-readable format.

### How do I configure the plugin?
Install the plugin like any other Maven plugin, and then add the following to your pom.xml in the project you wish to document:
<pre>
	&lt;build&gt;
	    &lt;plugins&gt;
	        &lt;plugin&gt;
	            &lt;groupId&gt;MavenReflectionPlugin&lt;/groupId&gt;
	            &lt;artifactId&gt;MavenReflectionPlugin&lt;/artifactId&gt;
	            &lt;version&gt;1.0&lt;/version&gt;
	            &lt;executions&gt;
	                &lt;execution&gt;
	                    &lt;id&gt;DocExecution&lt;/id&gt;
	                    &lt;phase&gt;package&lt;/phase&gt;
	                    &lt;goals&gt;
	                        &lt;goal&gt;generatedocs&lt;/goal&gt;
	                    &lt;/goals&gt;
	                    &lt;configuration&gt;
	                        &lt;!-- Package to scan --&gt;
	                        &lt;packageName&gt;your.package.name&lt;/packageName&gt;
	                        &lt;!-- Destination for Documentation --&gt;
	                        &lt;!-- XML will go in docDestination/xml, JSON will go in docDestination/json --&gt;
	                        &lt;docDestination&gt;/your/folder&lt;/docDestination&gt;
	                        &lt;!-- The root URL that prefixes your annotations, just the path and NOT the domain --&gt;
	                        &lt;!-- Example: "impl" not "http://www.secondmarket.com/impl" --&gt;
	                        &lt;rootURL&gt;impl&lt;/rootURL&gt;
	                    &lt;/configuration&gt;
	                &lt;/execution&gt;
	            &lt;/executions&gt;
	        &lt;/plugin&gt;
	    &lt;/plugins&gt;
	&lt;/build&gt;
</pre>

### What are the limitations?
There are a few limitations to the REST Doc Generator
<ul>
	<li>It only works on one package at a time.</li>
	<li>All classes must contain the proper annotations.  Controllers must be labeled <code>@Controller</code>, methods/routes to be documented must have the <code>@RequestMapping</code> annotation, and parameters must be annotated with either <code>@PathVariable</code>, <code>@RequestBody</code>, <code>@RequestHeader</code>, or <code>@RequestParameter</code>.
	<li>Generic support in parameter and return types is fairly basic, users requiring advanced support for nested generic classes should consider an advanced annotation-based JSON-generator like Jackson</li>
</ul>

### Are there any known bugs?
Yes, there are a few non-critical issues with this plugin:
<ul>
	<li>The folder specified in <code>docDestination</code> must exist before the plugin is run</li>
	<li>The plugin cannot delete old files between runs, please clear the <code>docDestination</code> folder manually</li>
</ul>